today we have Arjun vya who built and
sold an online ayurvedic Health brand
for 100 crores six Distributors I think
signed up 10 lakh worth order came and I
was like a finance guy right Excel sheet
10 lakhs first month 20 lakhs second
month 50 lakh 6 month 1 CR 12th month
and then like 18 mon $1 million per
month arjun's brand Dr vya is a
testament of his family Legacy born from
the simple idea of providing organic
ayurvedic Health Products to the masses
and today their products are found in
the cabinets of lack of people in this
episode we dive deep into three core
insights into how Arjun built his Mega
Health
brand how did you start your own Journey
even before getting into the business uh
talk a little bit about your family
background and give us a glimpse in your
early life my family's been in AA for
years Doctor was anic Clinic that my D
used to run in Maj B in Bombay very
successful
doctor CL
so people from all across India would
write to my D for medicine with their
ailments and he would send them a
prescription and Medicine back via post
famous doctor
but when my dad graduated from college
my dad was not a doctor he was a
Commerce student
he I want to make this into a consumer
brand and think about late 80s in India
consumer Brands big fmcg companies ders
maros were just coming up just starting
at that time my dad convinced my D
product we had a unique product called
herbit chavan prashan capsule form and
let's make a fmcg product out of it
let's take it to distribution let's
distribute to the pharmacies and let's
do a TV ad so 1989 may my D took a ad on
D Das and
jit in that time he made this ad and he
spent lots of money on that ad problem
is year one may
distrib and my D got shocked when he saw
a loss and then he lost money so he told
my dad look I've never lost money in my
life and I will never lose money again
in my life if you want to work with me
you work in this clinic or you go I grew
up with athema I suffered from juvenile
bronchitis my childhood was pumps
nebulizers inhalers steroids and astha
prevented me from having this normal
childhood so I got an aurvedic treatment
15 years of ayurvedic treatment later I
was cured of as by my da but for me that
I got rid of asthma and that I became
captain of my school cricket team was a
big thing in my life and it started
making me believe in the science and
then 2014 government changed Ministry of
aush was created Prime Minister Modi
came and lots of focus on ayurveda pangi
Revolution started happening so lots of
customers started being interested K
ayura maybe like younger customers
wanted to buy products triy products C
products so this was all the macro going
on to that time and the micro was my D
past in 2016 and so we had these
formulations we had these products we
had this
opportunity let's do something funky
unique disruptive in and my D has left
behind formulations has left behind a
small Factory left behind a
clinic BR I took my D's name launched a
company was named dr's New Age Aura to
take Aura and make it appealing
accessible to Modern consumers that was
the pitch I had this big event where I
called press media partner stakeholders
and Distributors so six Distributors I
think signed up Jan 2017 10 lakh was the
order came okay and I was like a finance
guy right Excel sheet 10 lakhs first
month 20 lakhs second month 50 lakhs 6
month 1 CR 12th month and then like 18th
month $1 million per month business and
the first month worked my projection of
10 lakhs happened what I did realize is
offline distribution or
online in front of imian zandu Arjun and
Dr could only do social media marketing
when I didn't get paid I went to these
Distributors to collect the money I got
n lakhs of product back one lakh in cash
and a big slap in my facing actually
you're not even selling you thought you
were selling 10 lakhs in one month you
have not even sold 1 lakh in 3 months at
that time I
realized to stand up to these big Brands
and it's not working so I took a very
hard call at that time to let go of my
entire offline sales team of 20 people
and to say offline with this Capital
base with this brand with this knowledge
base Arjun weather cannot execute
offline and then I was dating a girl who
was in the founding team at NAA and she
said hey why don't you try online so I
said take you join me so I convinced my
girlfriend to join me we got engaged
April 2017 we got engaged July 2017 my
fiance joined the business Trisha and
that's when the online revolution of Dr
vya started so November 2017 we launched
our website and we gave that same free
consultation my D was offering we
launched 20 products at that time I
think it was 27 products and one and a
half years later we started doing 50
orders a day on our website and 50
orders a day on a single branded iric
website in 2018 th000 per day was a big
deal that's when we hit product Market
fit and I said Amazon
webs let's get it by the way you can
learn this and a lot more on the 22nd
edition of the growx demo day which is
happening on 22nd December the idea is
simple top growthx teams will present
in-depth growth strategies from this
list of curated companies and over the
course of these pitches you'll learn how
to design your Revenue model understand
nuances of customer acquisition
onboarding and retention and did I
mention the Beast converting free users
to paid users Plus increasing average
revenue per user the growthx demo day is
joined by Founders product and marketing
leaders of the startup ecosystem it's on
22nd December and you can join the event
for free but we have limited invites and
it's on first come first off basis so
grab your passes quickly from the
description and I'll see you there so
when you say you H product Market FD can
you to go deeper which is 30,000 a day
sale but what gave you confidence that
it actually has a pmf like repeat was
one but what other signals did you get I
I think in an e-commerce business now
the unit economics tells you it's a
product market for my product was
selling for after discount 720 rupees
the cost of goods was about 25% then
there are two more costs that you have
as a business one is the packaging
Logistics and miscellaneous costs and
the second is the customer acquisition
cost these are the only cost per unit
per order of e-commerce business to
packaging Logistics payment
Gateway and I was acquiring customers at
27 to 3,000 rupees per so I actually
made 100 to 150 rupes per R and when I
started making money per order then I
said if I'm making money per order the
business makes sense the structure makes
sense now let me scale basically selling
price Minus cost of good sold minus
packaging Logistics miscellaneous cost
and customer acquisition cost what's
that number if it's zero or positive
then you know you're making money on the
first order and if you are a repeat
friendly product then you remove most of
the C in your second order or third and
then you're making lots of money that's
a secret source of d2c and then from
there the good part about online
businesses you just change gears so I'm
driving at second gear I just moved to
Third and then fourth I kept on doing
the same thing it went from 50 Ord to
10000 500 Co we went from 500 to 5,000 a
day at our series a of 15 90% website
business and we were doing like one CR a
month that's awesome what work there to
get to that stage I think three things
there was there was nobody doing an aura
website number two this was truly a
repeat friendly product and number three
hooking the customer or bring the
customer with a free consultation I
think these three things helped us
differentiate ourselves and number four
is obviously 150 Years of Legacy Family
Heritage manufacturing facility in house
trust being Arjun want to understand
everything that you have learned over
the years in d2c that I can learn and
maybe we can start with understanding
product pitch and then we can go to user
product Market competition and then into
price points and more so product is the
first starting point of any d2c brand
and when you start with product EXT you
ask yourself three questions what is the
problem what is the solution and do I
have a right to win the other crucial
question at this point you have to ask
yourself is is it a problem only for me
once You' have established these anwers
then you have to go into the product
life cycle now what's a product life
cycle it's identifying the product
designing the product finding the right
manufacturing partners for the product
sampling the product getting customer
feedback on the and then you launch the
product with a low mq whatever that mq
is and then you keep iterating based on
customer feedback so the first year of
your product you should speak to as many
customers as you can and see is the
product working for them or not because
what may be your initial idea or
hypothesis on the product versus when
the customer uses the product may be
different so this is the entire product
life cycle or Journey that brand should
go through I think when you think about
distribution right what sort of media
mix typically Works in early stages
especially when you're and you mentioned
something about performance and it
initially worked but maybe tougher for
Brands today what do you see helps crack
that mix uh and my question is second
layered which is how many touch points
are required before somebody makes a buy
from the day they discover your product
I think on the number of touch points
the latest number I've been seeing is
seven if I am think to think about DC
today I will say that there has to be a
clear demarcation between performance
and brand marketing one two
in that demarcation you have to be
consistent with your brand marketing
spans on media mix there are only four
media platforms available to us right
Facebook Instagram Google and YouTube
largely these platforms are available to
us when I started it was website is more
valuable than Marketplace so go on
website first Etc all of that right
today that thing has changed for me
today I feel like with the Cs going up
the way they going you let the customer
decide which means you list on your
website you spend money on creation of
website you list on two or three
marketplaces you spend 3 to 6 months
selling two data points will tell you
what works and what the customer wants
one is a sales velocity how much sale am
I making two is a roas or return on ad
spend if the roas is higher on Amazon
clearly the customer is saying I'm
happier to buy you today in a lot of
categories Marketplace are more
efficient than website in terms of uh
unit economics perspective and sometimes
website is actually a consistent GH G
and can never make you money and you
have to accept that or see that and move
on from that as well so Arjun would love
to understand you keep talking about
marketplaces especially Amazon can you
tell me everything that you've cracked
on the product listing page of Amazon
what all you need to look at and what
what is the importance of each of those
elements what helps and how do you also
evolve those pages so there's four parts
to a product listing on Amazon the first
part is the first thing you see which is
the image of the product now there is a
technical way to do imagery now which
didn't exist earlier which is seven
images six images and one video IM
include front of pack back of pack
license number benefits of products
lifestyle images of products and how to
use the products that's the basic six
images in your product and the video
could be usage of the product brand
ambassador how to use the product what
the product comes from what are the
ingredients of the product Etc all of
that second thing is naming convention
naming convention means the words the
customer sees and the words the customer
sees have to be able to convince the
customer about what is the product what
is the dosage what is the size of
product how many units ofct will you get
and what is the product used for the
third part is the description next to
the product which talks about the
ingredients which talks about how to use
which talks about testimonials which
talks about Factory licenses Etc all of
that that has to give the user enough
information to make a purchase or to
make a purchase where they understand
what they're bu and the fourth part is
below and least priority but just for
the browsers you have this thing on
Amazon called A+ content and on a lot of
other websites you have Rich content
right not just these technical images
product ET all of that but you can talk
more about the lifestyle that comes with
product other products I have Etc all of
that if a customers come to A+ they are
on the fence and then the A+ has to
convert them but usually the customer
gets converted in the first three it's
like you can talk about images of the
product detailed stories of the
ingredients why you came up with the
product who is the founder what other
products you sell what is your Brand
Story Etc all of that in that small
display card you can't put all that
information so if there's a browser
someone on the fence they may go down
and learn this more information so Dr
vaa you sold off and then you become a
investor walk me through that journey of
going from a Founder to an investor and
what is the d2c investing thesis that
you have now built over the years so
look I think uh it was an accidental
Journey becoming an investor I sold the
business and then I had a lot of time on
my hands and I think from that journey I
got the opportunity then to set up a
fund I got connected to the folks at
World invest they wanted to set up a VC
business in India with an ex-f founder
who's built and sold a consumer business
who's below the age of 40 and that
interested me and so I got to know them
and in Jan of 2022 we launched this
consumer fund doing seed to series a
investing in cons it's called V3
Ventures it's called V3 Ventures it's a
fund investing in seed to series a
consumer brand so let's say $500,000 to
$4 million I think the market for India
and d2c has got exciting and difficult
exciting because there are more
customers there are more Brands there's
more scope there's more Tam there's all
of these things but difficult was is
much more competition and so you'll now
see Brands emerging in niches let's say
for example we talk first about fashion
you launch a general men's casual brand
now snitch and bearhouse and rare rabbit
and all of these brands have taken up
lot of that space right so now you could
launch a women's atleisure brand you
could launch a men's Performance
atleisure Brand you could launch a men's
innerware brand so those nuanes
similarly in lifestyle right you can't
just launch a random jewelry business
now now you can launch a demi Fine
Jewelry business you can launch a
costume jewelry business you can launch
a silver jewelry business like that
travel hotels has got so cluttered I've
now invested in a business called
hellerer which caters to jenz travel
which means they're saying that jenz
wants to travel every long weekend
instead of saving up for a summer
holiday like I do and so they want a
standardized Tech first budget friendly
offering in tourist offbeat tourist and
some City locations right and so we
found this backpacking hostel business
called hostel with 55 locations across
the country that has created this
offering where the rooms are available
at 2500 bucks the private rooms and the
Doms are available at 600 to 800 rupees
a night but the experience feels premium
they've been able to create a business
that did 55 CR last year and is gunning
for 100 CR this year in the niche of how
is genz traveling and how is that Chang
right so I think that's very interesting
similarly we saw that diabetics is a
massive Market in India now India has
140 million diabetics and 140 million
pre-diabetics that's like some 15 17% of
our country now Arjun vya is healthy
doesn't have sugar doesn't have tea
coffee doesn't have gluten and so that's
not the length with which I looked at
the investment in gozero ice cream which
is a lcal zero sugar ice cream I looked
in gozero saying yeah there are so many
diabetics they should also enjoy ice
cream have to give them a product that
allows them to still consume what they
love and that's how we invested in Gozo
ice cream the beautiful part about the
Indian economy that we are in today is
it's so big but it's getting nuanced and
each Nuance is bigger than a European
country if you say that a deible market
of 50 million customers is bigger than
most European countries it's not a joke
right top 10% of Indian households is
140 million people half the size of the
American Country yes our purchasing
power parity is less yes our customers
want lower average order values yes all
of those things exist but just think
about what exists in front of us the
consumer opportunity in front of us is
so massive yes you have to get it right
and Indian consumers have the nuances
but once you get it right this guy is
the limit if you had to build a d2c in
2024 from scratch which category would
you pick how would you build it how how
would you build distribution how would
you build a brand and more importantly
how would you build trust on that brand
so look I'm biased I would build in
health and wellness I would build a
brand with a unique product offering I
build a research product with a unique
Nuance i' build a product that has high
repeat I'd build a business which has
high referral possibility right so you
feel something you tell your friends and
I would build a business where I can
actually own a part of the consumer's
daily routine it could be a daily
supplement it could be a gut supplement
it could be a natural supplement could
be a sports recovery supplement could be
Sports recovery drink and how would you
think about price point and how would
you think about distribution I think
distribution is going to be online to
start with with the Nuance of quick
Commerce which helps a lot with impulse
purchase and product Discovery so
depending on the product I would use
Quick Commerce as well on price point
the way I always price in India is look
at the market see what's around take the
average of that and price 20% lower or
20% higher for 20% higher you're more
premium for 20% lower you're winning the
price game price war is bad in India so
I like to go higher so that you give the
value to the customer and you pay higher
rather than getting to this price but
that's how you look at price on trust
the first 100 customers is really hard
you got to go out there and really push
once you have those 400 customers use
them to be your brand ambassadors give
them product for free eventually but if
they are giving the experience that is
how you build trust nothing like
sampling and customer testimonials in
the health and wellness space in terms
of trust building for customers I want
wanted to end this with the incentives
right now because you now have wor the
investor hat I wanted to understand
incentives for Founders building in d2c
what are the right incentives for them
to build what are the business metrics
are you looking at what categories are
you looking at paint me a picture from
an investor point of view in d2c
specifically it's a longer ride there is
not instant variety that happens and so
I look for genuine passion grit and
resilience to fight through tough times
some unique Market inside that has a
right to win a market that's big enough
sometimes I see businesses which are
great but it's not the founders fault
the market is just not there and then
economics that makes sense which I've
explained but more than just the founder
I want to say te
[Music]